We're going to take a minute and just walk through a
little bit of the history of Spring.
Spring actually started out as a bunch of developers that were
consulting and were tired of some of the shortcomings or
painful pieces of developing with JEE.
So this group of people got together and put together the Spring Framework,
which actually used to be called Interface 21 and decided
they wanted to roll this out as an enterprise framework
available for the public to use.
Their first milestone release was in 2003.
Now, not really a big deal, but it's when things kind of got rolling for them.
Now, in 2004, they had their 1.0 release,
and one of the things you're going to see as we step through the
years is that Spring had a pretty consistent,
very stable release cycle.
As part of their release cycle,
they've always tried to keep it backwards and forwards compatible.
In fact, all of the applications that I've ever written since 2003,
I don't know of one thing that I've had break from backwards compatibility.
I have actually also integrated some key dates in here with Hibernate in
our timeline and notably started with Hibernate 3.0,
which was released in 2005.
Where it starts getting interesting though is in 2009 when JPA 2.0 was
released and then again in 2013 when JPA 2.1 was released.
All this time, Spring 2.0 and 3.0 were subsequently released in that timeline.
Hibernate 4.3 was released in 2013,
as well as to support the new features of JPA 2.1, and then
Spring 4.0 and 5.0 were both released after that,
integrating newer JVMs and continued long‑term support. Let's talk more about JPA though, since that really is the focus of this course.